.TH curs_termcap 3X ""
.ds n 5
.SH NAME
\fBtgetent\fR, \fBtgetflag\fR, \fBtgetnum\fR,
\fBtgetstr\fR, \fBtgoto\fR, \fBtputs\fR - direct \fBcurses\fR
interface to the terminfo capability database
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <curses.h>\fR
.br
\fB#include <term.h>\fR
.br
\fBint tgetent(const char *bp, char *name);\fR
.br
\fBint tgetflag(const char *id);\fR
.br
\fBint tgetnum(const char *id);\fR
.br
\fBchar *tgetstr(const char *id, char **area);\fR
.br
\fBchar *tgoto(const char *cap, int col, int row);\fR
.br
\fBint tputs(const char *str, int affcnt, int (*putc)(int));\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines are included as a conversion aid for programs that use
the \fItermcap\fR library.  Their parameters are the same and the
routines are emulated using the \fIterminfo\fR database.  Thus, they
can only be used to query the capabilities of entries for which a
terminfo entry has been compiled.

The \fBtgetent\fR routine loads the entry for \fIname\fR.
It returns 1 on success, 0 if there is no such entry, and -1 if the
terminfo database could not be found.
The emulation ignores the buffer pointer \fIbp\fR.

The \fBtgetflag\fR routine gets the boolean entry for \fIid\fR.

The \fBtgetnum\fR routine gets the numeric entry for \fIid\fR.

The \fBtgetstr\fR routine returns the string entry for \fIid\fR.  Use
\fBtputs\fR to output the returned string.

The \fBtgoto\fR routine instantiates the parameters into the given capability.
The output from this routine is to be passed to \fBtputs\fR.

The \fBtputs\fR routine is described on the \fBcurs_terminfo\fR(3X) manual
page.  It can retrieve capabilities by either termcap or terminfo name.

.SH RETURN VALUE
Except where explicitly noted,
routines that return an integer return \fBERR\fR upon failure and \fBOK\fR
(SVr4 only specifies "an integer value other than \fBERR\fR") upon successful
completion.

Routines that return pointers return \fBNULL\fR on error.
.SH BUGS
If you call \fBtgetstr\fR to fetch \fBca\fR or any other parameterized string,
be aware that it will be returned in terminfo notation, not the older and
not-quite-compatible termcap notation.  This won't cause problems if all
you do with it is call \fBtgoto\fR or \fBtparm\fR, which both expand
terminfo-style.

Because terminfo conventions for representing padding in string capabilities
differ from termcap's, \fBtputs("50");\fR will put out a literal "50" rather
than busy-waiting for 50 milliseconds.  Cope with it.
.SH PORTABILITY
The XSI Curses standard, Issue 4 describes these functions.  However, they
are marked TO BE WITHDRAWN and may be removed in future versions.

Neither the XSI Curses standard nor the SVr4 man pages documented the return
values of \fBtgetent\fR correctly, though all three were in fact returned ever
since SVr1.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBterminfo\fR(\*n), \fBputc\fR(3S).
.\"#
.\"# The following sets edit modes for GNU EMACS
.\"# Local Variables:
.\"# mode:nroff
.\"# fill-column:79
.\"# End:
