.\" $Id: toe.1m,v 0.6 1997/12/06 22:14:57 tom Exp $
.TH toe 1M ""
.ds n 5
.ds d @DATADIR@/terminfo
.SH NAME
\fBtoe\fR - table of (terminfo) entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtoe\fR [\fB-v\fR[\fIn\fR]] [\fB-huUV\fR] \fIfile...\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
With no options, \fBtoe\fR lists all available terminal types by primary name
with descriptions.  File arguments specify the directories to be scanned; if no
such arguments are given, your default terminfo directory is scanned.  If you
also specify the -h option, a directory header will be issued as each
directory is entered. 
.PP
There are other options intended for use by terminfo file maintainers:
.TP
\fB-u\fR \fIfile\fR
says to issue a report on dependencies in the given file. This report condenses
the `use' relation: each line consists of the primary name of a terminal that
has use capabilities, followed by a colon, followed by the
whitespace-separated primary names of all terminals which occur in those use
capabilities, followed by a newline
.TP
\fB-U\fR \fIfile\fR
says to issue a report on reverse dependencies in the given file. This report
reverses the `use' relation: each line consists of the primary name of a
terminal that occurs in use capabilities, followed by a colon, followed by the
whitespace-separated primary names of all terminals which depend on it,
followed by a newline.
.TP
\fB-v\fR\fIn\fR
specifies that (verbose) output be written to standard error trace
information showing \fBtoe\fR's progress.  The optional integer
\fIn\fR is a number from 1 to 10, interpreted as for \fBtic\fR(1).
.TP 5
\fB-V\fR
prints out the version of the program in use on standard error and exits.
.SH FILES
.TP 5
\fB\*d/?/*\fR
Compiled terminal description database.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBtic\fR(1M), \fBinfocmp\fR(1M), \fBcaptoinfo\fR(1M), \fBinfotocap\fR(1M),
\fBcurses\fR(3X), \fBterminfo\fR(\*n).
.\"#
.\"# The following sets edit modes for GNU EMACS
.\"# Local Variables:
.\"# mode:nroff
.\"# fill-column:79
.\"# End:
